.TH GSE2MSEED 1 2005/10/06
.SH NAME
GSE 2.x or IMS 1.0 INT and CM6 waveform data to Mini-SEED converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
gse2mseed [options] file1 [file2 file3 ...]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgse2mseed\fP converts GSE 2.x or IMS 1.0 INT or CM6 compressed
waveform data files to Mini-SEED.  One or more input files may be
specified on the command line.  If an input file name is prefixed with
an '@' character the file is assumed to contain a list of input data
files, see \fILIST FILES\fP below.

By default all data from a given input file is written to a file of
the same name with a ".mseed" suffix.  If the input file name includes
a ".gse" suffix/extention it will be removed.  The output data may be
re-directed to a single file or stdout using the -o option.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Print program version and exit.

.IP "-h         "
Print program usage and exit.

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-i         "
Ignore GSE checksum mismatch errors, a warning message is printed but
processing continute.

.IP "-B         "
Buffer all input data into memory before packing it into Mini-SEED
records.  The host computer must have enough memory to store all of
the data.  By default the program will flush it's data buffers after
each input block is read.  An output file must be specified with the
-o option when using this option.

.IP "-a         "
Map GSE auxiliary id code to SEED location id code.

.IP "-n \fInetcode\fP"
Specify the SEED network code to use, if not specified the network
code will be blank.  It is highly recommended to specify a network
code.

.IP "-l \fIloccode\fP"
Specify the SEED location code to use, if not specified the location
code will be blank.

.IP "-r \fIbytes\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED record length in \fIbytes\fP, default is 4096.

.IP "-e \fIencoding\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED data encoding format, default is 11 (Steim-2
compression).  Other supported encoding formats include 10 (Steim-1
compression), 1 (16-bit integers) and 3 (32-bit integers).  The 16-bit
integers encoding should only be used if all data samples can be
represented in 16 bits.

.IP "-b \fIbyteorder\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED byte order, default is 1 (big-endian or most
significant byte first).  The other option is 0 (little-endian or
least significant byte first).  It is highly recommended to always
create big-endian SEED.

.IP "-o \fIoutfile\fP"
Write all Mini-SEED records to \fIoutfile\fP, if \fIoutfile\fP is a
single dash (-) then all Mini-SEED output will go to stdout.  All
diagnostic output from the program is written to stderr and should
never get mixed with data going to stdout.

.SH LIST FILES
If an input file is prefixed with an '@' character the file is assumed
to contain a list of file for input.  The list should be a simple text
file with one input file name per line.

Multiple list files can be combined with multiple input files on the
command line.

An example of a simple test list:

.nf
SENIN.CH.gse
ANMO.IU.gse
.fi

.SH ABOUT GSE & IMS FORMATS
The GSE format was created by the Group of Scientific Experts during a
series of Technical Tests.  With minor modification the GSE 2.x format
was adopted by the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
Organization's (CTBTO) International Monitoring System and designated
IMS 1.0.

The GSE format is commonly used in the Swiss AutoDRM:
http://www.seismo.ethz.ch/autodrm/

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
